
$Id$

	      			  nc-dods
				Version 2.0
				  May 1996

This file contains information about the DODS-netCDF software. For information
about building and using the software, see the files INSTALL and USING. For
information about secure servers (that limit access to domains or individual
people) see the file SECURITY.

The Distributed Oceanographic Data System (DODS) allows you to access local
and/or remote data sets without the need for format conversion or changes
to the original software. Instead, existing software can be rebuilt using 
the DODS replacements for certain standard components. This rebuilt would make
the software into a DODS client which can now communicate with DODS servers.

DODS also makes it simple to provide others with direct, over-the-network,
access to your data. There is no need to reformat your data so that a new
system can read it. Instead DODS uses the http server along with a dispatch 
script and a set of three server programs (Data Attribute Server, Data 
Structure Server, and Data Server) to make your existing data files available
to anyone who has access to a program rebuilt with DODS components.

For more information about DODS, see the URL

    http://dods.gso.uri.edu

nc-dods is a client-server implementation of the Unidata netCDF API, based on
the Distributed Oceanographic Data System. nc-dods contains a new
implementation of the netCDF library which can be linked with programs which
currently are built with the standard implementation of the API. In addition,
the software also contains a matching data server which can be used along
with the client library.

The replacement library included in the nc-dods distribution mirrors the
standard implementation of the netCDF API very closely. A variety of software
packages have been developed for netCDF data display and analysis; rebuilding
these packages with nc-dods library instead of the original netCDF library
makes them capable of accessing data over the network through the provided
server software. The user can refer to the entire remote dataset using a URL
instead of the local file name. Furthermore, if the user wants to work only
with a small part of the data set, a constraint expression can be supplied
along with the URL to save on network data transmition time.

The current nc-dods client software supports the C programming interface 
and the Fortran Jacket of the netCDF for UNIX platform.

You can obtain a copy of the latest version of nc-dods software using
anonymous FTP from:

    Source files: ftp://dods.gso.uri.ed/pub/dods/
    Binary files: ftp://dods.gso.uri.ed/pub/dods/binaries/<platform>/...

Or, using the Web:
    
    http://dods.gso.uri.edu/DODS/home/software.html

To built from the source, You need to have the latest version of DODS core 
software which is also available from dods.gso.uri.edu.

Included in this distribution are: 

 - The netCDF surrogate client library,
 - The Fortran jacket for the netCDF surrogate library,
 - server programs and their dispatch script (nc-dods, nc-das, nc-dds, nc),
 - ncdump and ncview programs rebuilt with nc-dods client library, 
 - test programs, and documentation.

Questions about nc-dods may be sent to reza@dods.gso.uri.edu.

Good Luck :-)
Reza Nekovei, URI