Report on the 12th Meeting of the CEOS/WGD/CS


   Of interest to DODS;

   International Directory Network (IDN) Activity
	The IDN is in essence several replicated copies of the NASA Master
Directory (aka GCMD) that are currently implemented in Japan, Italy, Canada
and the US.

    Lola Olson is the new manager of the Earth Science component of the MD.
She gave a presentation which focused on 3 main issues:
      1/ The need to populate the IDN.
      2/ The need to revisit the IDN structure and implementation.
      3/ Skinny DIFs.  Defining a required minimum set of information which
         must be in a DIF.
    
    Privately Lola expressed to me that she felt that there are a significant
    number of problems with the MD.  She intends to address these problems
    including making the directory truly distributed, streamlining the DIF
    generation process, possibly doing away with the current commercial DBMS
    used by the MD and redesigning the user interface.  However, she needs to
    move carefully on these issues.  While the IDN is not technically very
    significant, it is politically significant in terms of international
    coordination of data management activities.  Therefore it is prudent for
    her not to spook the various parties involved with the IDN with NASA's
    intention to unilaterally change the MD and thus the IDN.  To this end
    Lola has requested that CEOS member nation should consider participating
    on the MD advisory panel.

    Lola is interested in working closely with the DODS project.  She would
    like our input on changes to the structure and content of the DIF and to
    the implementation of a distributed directory.  My sense is that she
    would like to leverage changing the MD via our proposed work with the MD
    as a directory server.


EOSDIS V1 

     Mark Elkington gave a presentation on the new conceptual model for the
     EOSDIS v1 that Hughes will be building.  It is a data access system
     which shares in common with DODS many of the same system components and
     approaches.  In terms of development his team is really at the same
     point as us working on the system design and trying to determine what
     are the data models that need to be incorporated.  He will be sending to
     me a complete set of the overheads that he has used in his
     presentations to NASA management and advisory panels (the presentation
     in Ottawa subsetted from these).  From what I saw at the CEOS meeting I
     think we might be able to use some of his schematics to help us think
     through some of the details of different components of the DODS system.
     

     He is very keen to learn more details of what we are doing and to
     coordinate parts of his development effort with us.  Hughes would
     benefit from our taking the lead in the prototyping of a distributed data
     access system in 2 ways;  1/ They could learn from our mistakes (if we
     make any!) 2/  They could point to the DODS system as a prototyping
     effort outside of EOSDIS which is developing the type of system that
     they want to build. (Interesting!!??).  Mark mentioned that it would be
     feasible for Hughes to build some of the components for a DODS system if
     they were also applicable to the EOSDIS system.  

     Jim Gallagher would like to push for a March meeting with Hughes rather
     than an April meeting.  He feels that in terms of his development
     timetable the earlier date would allow us to get input to our design at
     a point where it could be taken advantage of.  I originally suggested
     the April time because Peter and I would be down in DC at that time for
     CI.  Glenn let me know what you think and I will try to work it out with
     Mark.  I would like to propose a teleconference with Mark and his people
     and all of us for some time next week at which we could discuss when we
     would get together and talk about how we might see cooperating in
     general.

George