Meeting at MEDS with  Ron Wilson, Bob Keeley and Howard Edel

February 3,1994  Ottawa, Canada

Meeting highlights:
	Update on the status of DODS
	Details of the MEDS data management operations
	Discussion of MEDS participation in DODS

	I informed Ron, Bob and Howard of the completion of the DODS report
and its distribution.  I spoke briefly on the current design and  server
development activities and talked about our reviewing virtual file systems and
RPCs within the context of implementation approaches.  I told them that we
are posting development documentation for community review and would send
them the reference to access it.  I emphasized our desire to have input from
others on the documentation and invited Bob and Ron to review them and give
us feedback.

   Ron and Bob discussed the types of data that they manage.  This includes
bottle, CTD, STD sea height, wave spectra and various types of time series
data such as drifting buoys and temperature records.  They receive daily
updates for some of these data sets on an operational basis and are set up to
handle rapid intake, quality registration and ingest into their data system
(for one data set they receive 1100 separate field measurements per day).
Currently all of their different data sets are in one of three data formats
or more precisely data structures.  These data structures are the GTSPP
(Global Temperature-Salinity Pilot Project) for their station data, a
time-series data structure and a spectral data data structure.  One of the
interesting things about the MEDS data management system is that for
each data type , all of the data is stored in a single file in the
appropriate data structure and is on-line.  The data files are on the order
of 1 Gbyte and are indexed so that accessing them via one of 3 keys is very
fast. Time, lat/lon and ship or station ID are the 3 indexes I believe (I'm
sure of time and location but not the index).  All of the data that comes
into the facility is transformed into one of the three data structures.  He
mentioned that they have had to deal with over 50 different data formats from
incoming data files and that they have been able to convert all of them to
the data structures that they support.  

    MEDS quality registers all of the incoming data files prior to its
loading them into its data management system.  It also checks for redundancy
or whether to update data sets.  Of interest to me was the fact that MEDS
offers a QC service to researchers who can submit raw data to MEDS who runs
it through their QC operations and returns the cleaned up data.  They have
distributed their QC system to Bedford Institute of Oceanography for them to
use operationally.

    I informed them of the current and hoped for funding support for DODS
including the Workshop Project, the NASA/Directory Service project, the
NOAA/CGCP NODC server proposal and the NASA/Joint server development
proposal which is planned for submittal.  Ron asked how might MEDS
participate in the DODS program.  I suggested three ways that MEDS could make
valuable contributions:

	 1/ Active participation in the ongoing design and development
	    activities of the DODS.  I strongly encouraged them to provide us
	    with feedback on the design documents.

	 2/ Provide us with documentation on their data structures.  I
	    received a description of the GTSPP data structure and will be
	    forwarded documents on the time series and spectral data formats.


	 3/ Developing servers for their data structures.  I said that this
	    particular effort would best be coordinated with our work with
	    NOAA/CGCP or the joint server development proposal should they be
	    funded.  Should neither of these be funded we would revisit this
	    question.  To begin work on this now I felt would be premature.

    MEDS is very willing to participate in the DODS at this point in an
informal way.  


Points of particular relevance:

      1- 3 data structures, on-line, keyed access is fast.

      2- All data held by MEDS is quality registered.

      3- They already possess a number of data translators which could
         conceivably form the basis for a translator library.

      4- As a data center MEDS provides QC services to the research
         community.  This could be integrated with the DODS as part of its
	 available services.

George-