
$Id$

See the file INSTALL for directions on building the DODS core software and
the sample libraries and servers.

DODS: The Distributed Oceanographic Data System. DODS is `middle-ware' that
you can use to make your data available to other people over the Internet as
well as read data others have made available. DODS works in two ways: It can
be used to build client programs which function as standalone tools or which
work in concert with one or more analysis packages (see geturl in the src/dap
directory and loaddods in the src/writeval directory for examples of each of
these types of clients). In addition, DODS clients can be made by replacing
the API library used to read data files in your analysis package with a new
version which reads data from a data server. On the data side, DODS builds
servers using its core software (which takes care of the network transport
tasks) and the original implementation of the API used to read the data.

The transport software that is part of DODS is designed to translate data
access so that users don't need to know how the remote data are stored.

See the file USING for information on actually using DODS to make data
available to others on the Internet and for directions for relinking your
existing data analysis programs so that they can read remote as well as local
data files.

This is the top-level of the DODS file hierarchy; it contains the following
directories:

	packages: This directory holds various third-party software packages
	     DODS. At the present time only packages used by the core
	     software are contained in this directory. 

	bin: Empty until some of the DODS software is built. Use this as a
	     place to store binaries of data analysis programs you have
	     re-linked with the DODS libraries.

	doc: This directory contains documentation on various aspects of
	     DODS. In additional to user documentation, this directory also
	     contains information about the design, implementation and
	     management of DODS which might be useful to people who want to
	     contribute software to DODS. In addition, there are several
	     reports on DODS in this directory.

	     Note: Documentation is available separately *and* on the web. We
	     encourage you to use the web to get the docs since that makes
	     keeping them up to date much simpler. Our home page is at:
	     http://dods.gso.uri.edu/DODS. There you will find both HTML and
	     Postscript copies of our documentation.

	etc: This directory contains various support files used during the
	     build of the DODS source code. It also contains templates for
	     the autoconf configuration and make init files.

	include: Header files defined by one of the DODS libraries and used
		 by the others.

	lib: Once built, the various libraries are put here. These libraries
	     include both the DODS core software which is common to all the
	     servers and reimplemented APIs and the two sample DODS-IZED APIs
	     (netcdf and jgofs).

	src: All the DODS source code live here. The directory dap contains
	     the DODS core software. This library is used to build data
	     servers and reimplementations of existing APIs.


