
$Id$

	      			  ff-dods
				Version 3.1.2
				October 1999

This file contains information about the DODS-FREEFORM server. 
For information about building and using the software, see the files 
INSTALL and USING. 

DODS data servers make it simple to provide others with direct,
over-the-network, access to your data. There is no need to reformat
your data so that a new system can read it. Instead DODS uses the http server
along with a dispatch script and a set of three server programs (Data
Attribute Server, Data Structure Server, and Data Server) to make your
existing data files available to anyone who has access to a program rebuilt
with DODS components.

For more information about DODS, see the URL

    http://unidata.ucar.edu/packages/dods/

ff-dods is a server implementation of National Geophysical Data Center's
FreeForm/FFND, based on the Distributed Oceanographic Data System. The software
contains data servers that can be used along with any DODS client program to 
process data served by the ff-dods server.

The server can handle binary, ASCII, and dBASE data files through
FreeForm/FFND format descriptions. It can handle both array and sequence data
types. The data in the data file is read then served using the appropriate
type according to the format description in the required accompanying format
file.

In short, all the data associate blocks (header information) are processed.
Basic information about the input file is given as Global attributes as is
any header information. The file's data variables are mapped into the closest
Dods data model using the FreeForm/FFND external format file. The data is
reformatted to the Dods data model and served. The user can refer to the
entire data variable using a URL and/or the local file name. Furthermore, if
the user wants to work only with a small part of the data set, a constraint
expression can be supplied along with the URL to save on network data
transmission time. For more information see the file USING.

You can obtain a copy of the latest version of ff-dods software from
http://unidata.ucar.edu//packages/dods/.

To build from the source, You need to have the latest version FreeForm and 
maxmin libraries which are distributed with the latest version of DODS 
FreeForm software. You also need the latest version of DODS core
software.

Included in this distribution are: 

 - Server programs and their dispatch script (ff-dods, ff-das, ff-dds,
 nph-ff)
 - Test datasets and sample format files
 - Tools to help in writing FreeForm format files

Questions about ff-dods may be sent to support@unidata.ucar.edu.

Good Luck :-)
Reza Nekovei
